# GOV.UK Accessibility Reports

Project containing numerous report generators to monitor accessibility on GOV.UK.

##  Installing pre-commit hooks

This repo uses the Python package `pre-commit` (https://pre-commit.com) to manage pre-commit hooks. Pre-commit hooks are
actions which are run automatically, typically on each commit, to perform some common set of tasks. For example, a
pre-commit hook might be used to run any code linting automatically, providing any warnings before code is committed,
ensuring that all of our code adheres to a certain quality standard.

For this repo, we are using `pre-commit` for a number of purposes:
- Checking for any secrets being committed accidentally
- Checking for any large files (over 5MB) being committed
- Cleaning Jupyter notebooks, which means removing all outputs and execution counts

We have configured `pre-commit` to run automatically on _every commit_. By running on each commit, we ensure
that `pre-commit` will be able to detect all contraventions and keep our repo in a healthy state.

In order for `pre-commit` to run, action is needed to configure it on your system.

- Run `pip install -r requirements-dev.txt` to install `pre-commit` in your Python environment
- Run `pre-commit install` to set-up `pre-commit` to run when code is _committed_

### Setting up a baseline for the `detect-secrets` hook (if one doesn't already exist)

The `detect-secrets` hook requires that you generate a baseline file if one is not already present within the root
directory. This is done via running the following at the root of the repo:

`detect-secrets scan > .secrets.baseline`

Next, audit the baseline that has been generated by running:

`detect-secrets audit .secrets.baseline`

When you run this command, you'll enter an interactive console and be presented with a list of high-entropy string /
anything which _could_ be a secret, and asked to verify whether or not this is the case. By doing this, the hook will
be in a position to know if you're later committing any _new_ secrets to the repo and it will be able to alert you
accordingly.

### If pre-commit detects secrets during commit:

If pre-commit detects any secrets when you try to create a commit, it will detail what it found and where to go to check
the secret.

If the detected secret is a false-positive, you should update the secrets baseline through the following steps:

- Run `detect-secrets scan --update .secrets.baseline` to index the false-positive(s)
- Next, audit all indexed secrets via `detect-secrets audit .secrets.baseline` (the same as during initial set-up, if a
secrets baseline doesn't exist)
- Finally, ensure that you commit the updated secrets baseline in the same commit as the false-positive(s) it has been
updated for

If the detected secret is actually a secret (or other sensitive information), remove the secret and re-commit. There is
no need to update the secrets baseline in this case.

If your commit contains a mixture of false-positives and actual secrets, remove the actual secrets first before
updating and auditing the secrets baseline.

###  Note on Jupyter notebook cleaning

It may be necessary or useful to keep certain output cells of a Jupyter notebook, for example charts or graphs
visualising some set of data. To do this, add the following comment at the top of the input block:

`# [keep_output]`

This will tell `pre-commit` not to strip the resulting output of this cell, allowing it to be committed.

## Setting environment variables

Environment variables can be set locally using a `.envrc` file. This should only be used for local development / running
of the reports and is ignored by the `.gitignore` file.

### Creating `.envrc`

You can create the `.envrc` file by running:
```
./make_envrc.sh
```

Once the file has been created, you should update all of the vars described in the previous section, with the exception
of `DATA_DIR` which will be set automatically.

### Loading environment variables from `.envrc`

To load environment variables from `.envrc`, it is assumed that you have `direnv` installed - https://direnv.net.
`direnv` is an extension for your shell, which loads environment variables from `.envrc` files automatically when you
navigate to a directory containing such a file, as well as updating those environment variables in your shell whenever
they change in the file itself.

Once installed and hooked into your terminal, navigate to this project directory. You should then see the following
output:

```
direnv: loading ~/govuk/govuk-user-journey-models/.envrc
direnv: export +DATA_DIR (plus any additional environment variables)
```

If you don't see this, try running `direnv allow` to enable `direnv` to access the `.envrc` file (you will only need to
do this once.)
